home.md, before:

# Fall 2025, CCNY EAS 42000/A4200: Statistical Methods/Quantitative Data Analysis in Earth and Atmospheric Science

*Equipping students with (1) a toolbox of powerful data analysis tools, and (2) understanding of when and how to use them effectively.*

## What is this?
Welcome to this website for the Fall 2025 iteration of EAS 42000/A4200 at the [The City College of New York](https://www.ccny.cuny.edu/) (CCNY), taught by Prof. [Spencer Hill](https://shill.ccny.cuny.edu/), in the [Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences](https://www.ccny.cuny.edu/eas) (EAS).  On this site, you will find the course syllabus, class schedule, links to helpful external resources, and, as they come up in the semester, links to assignments and the final project.

The course is open to CCNY undergraduate students in EAS and other departments (as EAS 42000), EAS Masters students (as EAS A4200), and to PhD students in the [City *University* of New York](https://www.cuny.edu/) [Graduate Center](https://www.gc.cuny.edu/) [Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences](https://www.gc.cuny.edu/earth-and-environmental-sciences) (as EES 79903-45781).  For both Masters and PhD students, the official course title replaces "Stastical Methods" with "Quantitative Data Analysis."

## This site is just for students taking the class with me this term!
Although this is a public website, and the underlying code lives in a public, open-access repository on Github, the materials here are 

There is a sister repo which houses the online, interactive, work-in-progress textbook associated with this course.  The materials there are meant to be useful to others as well, not just my students at CCNY this particular semester. 

## What can I do with this site?
If you're anything other than a student currently enrolled in the course that I am teaching at CCNY, you are free to modify any of these materials however you see fit.  And I encourage you to suggest any changes or improvements---or even submit a pull request that would implement them---to the Github repository where they live, which you can access via [this link](https://github.com/spencerahill/stat-methods-course) or via the ["Octocat"](https://octodex.github.com/original/) silhouette logo at the top of this page.

Commit message:

better instructions on home page

home.md, after:

# Fall 2025, CCNY EAS 42000/A4200: Statistical Methods in Earth and Atmospheric Science

*Equipping students with (1) a toolbox of powerful data analysis tools, and (2) understanding of when and how to use them effectively.*

## What is this?
Welcome to this website for the Fall 2025 iteration of EAS 42000/A4200 at the [The City College of New York](https://www.ccny.cuny.edu/) (CCNY), taught by Prof. [Spencer Hill](https://shill.ccny.cuny.edu/), in the [Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences](https://www.ccny.cuny.edu/eas) (EAS).  On this site, you will find the course syllabus, class schedule, links to helpful external resources, and, as they come up in the semester, links to assignments and the final project.

The course is open to upper-division undergraduate students (as EAS 42000) and graduate students (as EAS A4200) at CCNY, as well as to students from other campuses of the [City *University* of New York](https://www.cuny.edu/).  For graduate students, the official course title replaces "Statistical Methods" with "Quantitative Data Analysis."

## This site is mostly for students taking the class with me this term, Fall 2025, at CCNY.
The site you're on is a public website, and the underlying code lives in a public, open-access [repository on Github](https://github.com/spencerahill/25f-stat-methods-course).  However, the materials here are mostly about specific details pertaining to the specific iteration of the class that I'm teaching at CCNY this Fall 2025 term.  So if you're not a student in the course, you might not find it especially useful. 

However, there is a [sister repo](https://github.com/spencerahill/stat-methods-book) which houses the [online, interactive, work-in-progress textbook](https://spencerahill.github.io/stat-methods-book/home.html) associated with this course.  The materials there are meant to be useful to others as well, not just my students at CCNY this particular semester; just be advised they remain heavily under construction!

## What can I do with this site?
### If you're a student enrolled in EAS 42000/A4200
There is a navigation bar on the left with links to the syllabus, schedule, HW assignments, and all other important resources.  (If you're viewing this on a mobile device or a narrow screen, it may not appear and you'll have to click around to find it.)

In addition, you'll receive instructions as the semester goes on about specific additional ways to interact with this website.  Those interactions will mostly be through its underlying Github repo.

### Everyone else
Anyone is welcome to fork this repo and use and/or modify any of these materials however you see fit.  And I encourage you to suggest any changes by [raising an Issue](https://github.com/spencerahill/25f-stat-methods-course/issues), or [submit a pull request](https://github.com/spencerahill/25f-stat-methods-course/pulls) that would implement your suggested improvement.  You can access the Github repo [here](https://github.com/spencerahill/25f-stat-methods-course) or via ["Octocat"](https://octodex.github.com/original/) silhouette logo at the top of this page.
